doc/triage.md, before:

# Triage

## Response to Usage Question

```
Per our [contributing guide][1], please ask usage questions on [StackOverflow][2].

Due to limited volunteer time, we can only accept bug reports and feature requests here on GitHub.

Once you create a question on StackOverflow, please feel free to comment here with the URL.

For instructions on how to file a bug report, please see our [issue template][3].

[1]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2]: https://stackoverflow.com/tags/paper-trail-gem
[3]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md
```

## Responses to Common Problems

```
Thanks for the bug report. All bug reports are required to use our
[bug report template][2]. See also our [contributing guide][1].

[1]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md
```

## Usage question masquerading as a feature proposal

```
> Is there a way to X? If not, I want that feature.

Hi _____,

Due to limited volunteer time, we can't answer questions like "Is there a way
...". We ask you to do that research yourself, or use [StackOverflow][1]. We can
only accept feature proposals that have already done this research.

Please do come back with a more concrete proposal. Thanks!

[1]: https://stackoverflow.com/tags/paper-trail-gem
```

Commit message:

Docs: Avoid phrase "bug report"
We don't accept bug reports.

doc/triage.md, after:

# Triage

## Response to Usage Question

```
Per our [contributing guide][1], please ask usage questions on [StackOverflow][2].

Due to limited volunteer time, we can only accept bug reports and feature requests here on GitHub.

Once you create a question on StackOverflow, please feel free to comment here with the URL.

For instructions on how to file a bug report, please see our [issue template][3].

[1]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2]: https://stackoverflow.com/tags/paper-trail-gem
[3]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md
```

## Responses to Common Problems

```
Hi ___. All issues are required to use our [issue template][2]. See also our
[contributing guide][1]. Please review the issue template, open a new issue,
and I'll do what I can to help!

[1]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2]: https://github.com/paper-trail-gem/paper_trail/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md
```

## Usage question masquerading as a feature proposal

```
> Is there a way to X? If not, I want that feature.

Hi _____,

Due to limited volunteer time, we can't answer questions like "Is there a way
...". We ask you to do that research yourself, or use [StackOverflow][1]. We can
only accept feature proposals that have already done this research.

Please do come back with a more concrete proposal. Thanks!

[1]: https://stackoverflow.com/tags/paper-trail-gem
```
